If I had to start a brand new SAS or AI
company from absolute zero today,
knowing everything I know from building
three software companies to over 35
million in combined ARR, this is exactly
what [music] I would do. And I'm not
talking about the advice that you hear
from VCs or the growth hacking gurus. In
this video, I'm breaking down my
complete step-by-step system for going
from zero users to over a,000 paying
customers by creating a foundation
that's built to scale. Let's dive in.
So, if you ask me why most founders
fail, I'd say it's because they fall in
love with their idea instead of their
customers problems. They build something
for 12 to 18 months before talking to
anyone. And they confuse building
something with building something that
people want. 90% of startups don't make
it to 1 million ARR. And the reason is
because of this phenomenon. They get an
idea. They go to a room with their
co-founders. They build for a year and a
half and then they show up waiting for
the world to buy their product. That is
not the right way to be successful. The
key to not being one of these 90% of
founders is the discovery process.
Before writing a single line of code,
commit to 50 discovery calls minimum.
Your only goal is to find people who
will pay you for something that you
haven't built yet. And I'm talking about
actual prepayment, not just Yeah, that
sounds interesting. And my favorite
story ever about this is the origin
story of Barkbox, which is now a
publicly traded company. Matt Mer owned
a Great Dane and he lived in New York
City. All the dog stores in New York
City sold tiny toys for tiny dogs. And
this was 2010, so it was pre- Amazon
Prime and pre- e-commerce. Matt took a
Photoshop image of a website, not even a
website, about a monthly delivery of
five large toys for $29 to Washington
Square Park. He showed it to every large
dog owner. And when they said they were
interested, he literally swiped their
card for $29 with a square card reader
hooked to the bottom of his phone. He
got 50 purchases the first day before he
even had a website and the rest is
history. So, you're probably wondering
how you get those first discovery calls.
You start with your personal network on
LinkedIn and other social media
platforms of people who match your ideal
customer profile. This is a message that
Andy Muborn uses to get discovery calls
for his company, Distribute. He says,
"Hi," and then the first name. "I was at
outreach.io and now I'm building a
high-spot and seismic competitor, three
times cheaper and 10 times more
userfriendly, and we currently have
around 4,000 active users that love us.
Would you be open to giving honest
feedback about the product I'm
building?" Signed, Andy. And here's the
key. He compensates them with a $100
gift card for their time. And you're
probably asking yourself, does this
still work? The answer is yes, it still
works. people [music] will still do
discovery calls for a gift card. Another
strategy that I've used before is to
offer paid advisory roles to people who
don't make tons of money like director
level and below of people who are still
in your ICP. You can also go to industry
events and pitch your idea with a
notepad which I call the Alina
Vanderberg approach. Alina is the
founder and CEO of Chili Piper and
they're now around 40 million ARR but
they started like this. Alina would go
to a sales meetup and she'd find the
most influential people in the room.
She'd approach them with a notepad that
was a drawing of her product vision. And
then she would ask, "Would you buy
something like this? And if not, what
would we have to change for you to buy
it?" And this face-to-face validation is
incredibly valuable for early stage
ideas. And you might be asking yourself,
how do you find the most influential
people in the room? What Alina does is
she sits there and looks around the
room. And the people that are walking
towards other people and giving them
hugs, the recipient of the hug is the
person Alina wants to talk to. Now,
you're probably asking yourself, what do
you actually say on these calls? I think
you lead with your sizzling oneliner.
It's the one sentence or elevator pitch
that will make people's eyes light up.
For example, for RB2B, it was person
level website visitor identification.
Before us, there was only company level
website visitor identification. So, when
people heard person level, they got very
excited. And then you should ask these
specific questions. Number one, do you
understand the problem that I'm trying
to solve? Number two, do you have the
problem that I'm trying to solve? Number
three, how are you solving this problem
today? Number four, would you pay for
the solution I'm describing if I could
get it to you tomorrow? And then number
five, what else would the solution have
to have in order for you to pay for it?
And number six, I'm thinking of charging
X per month, would you pay that price?
And the goal is to understand their pain
so deeply that you can solve it better
than anyone. Then build the absolute
minimum viable product. Only build
what's needed to deliver the core value
proposition. If it takes more than 4 to
6 weeks, you're probably building too
much. And here's the secret. Everything
you want to build but could do manually,
you should do manually at [music] first.
With RB2B, we manually sent spreadsheets
over email for five full months before
we even put up a website. We could have
built automation tools, but we didn't.
Staying manual kept us close to
customers. Manual processes are your
unfair advantage. You stay incredibly
close to your customers. You'll learn
things you'd never discover with
automation, and you can iterate 10 times
faster than your competitors that are
trying to automate everything. You get
to market months earlier and get that
real customer feedback. These are three
signals that prove that you've got
product market fit. Number one, you're
getting at least one referral per week
from your paying customers. Number two,
customers would be genuinely upset if
you took the product away. And signal
number three is you're seeing organic
growth without doing any marketing. If
you don't have all three of these, you
do not have product market fit yet. And
until you have these signals, do not
move to phase two. Don't do anything
else besides try to get product market
fit because nothing you do will work.
Product market fit generally equals
strong word of mouth. And here's what
strong word of mouth actually looks
like. People are sharing your product on
social without you asking them to.
They're bragging about using your
product. Prospects are coming to you and
saying, "I heard about you from blank."
Customers are creating content about
your product organically and it's
driving signups. And if you did nothing,
you would see exponential organic growth
on its own. Let's talk about building
good inbound velocity. Inbound velocity
means you're getting a steady flow of
prospects coming to you every day. This
isn't required to move forward, but it
makes everything easier that comes next.
I think the best way to start building
this is to post on LinkedIn from day
one. Share your building journey in real
time. the wins, the failures, and the
pivots. This creates awareness so that
when you start outreach, people already
know who you are. You'll know you have
good inbound velocity when people are
visiting your website without you
reaching out to them. When you're
getting inbound connection requests from
your ICP, when prospects are DMing you
asking about your product with RBDB, I
spent months building in public on
LinkedIn before we even launched our
product. And by the time we launched
RB2B, we had a 1,600 person wait list
and 300 meetings booked with high-value
customers to do discovery. [music] The
early content created the foundation
that let us hit 1 million ARR in just 6
weeks post launch. Phase two is creating
the magic triangle. Now, what is the
magic triangle? It's three channels
working together. Content, outreach, and
retargeting. Each channel feeds the
other two and creates a compounding
effect. The content drives awareness and
generates web traffic. Outreach converts
those warm website visitors into
customers. And retargeting brings back
the people who weren't ready to buy yet.
Now, this is not something you do from
day one. You should only activate this
magic triangle after you have product
market fit. You need at least one
referral per week from paying customers
first. And if you do any of this too
early, you'll waste money scaling
something that doesn't work. Here's why
you need all three channels working
together. Content alone is too slow for
early stage growth. You can't wait 2
years to build an audience, but you
should start building that audience
today. Outreach alone has terrible
conversion rates. Just cold email alone
is essentially dead. And retargeting
alone doesn't generate new pipeline. It
only works on people who already know
you and visited your website. But
together, they create a compounding
growth engine. Each channel makes the
other two more effective. LinkedIn
content is the foundation to the magic
triangle. Building a personal brand on
LinkedIn is the fastest way to grow a
startup today. Personal profiles grow 10
times faster than company pages and get
exponentially more engagement. Your
content creates a humanto human
connection at scale and those are free
ads. Over time, prospects feel like they
know you and will do anything you ask
them to as it relates to your products.
The founder content strategy is the
following. Post at least three times a
week on LinkedIn. This isn't optional if
you want the magic triangle to work. I
like to focus on three content pillars.
Mine are building in public which is
sharing my journey with real numbers and
transparency. Number two is the future
of my industry which I have a fairly
polarizing stance on where things and go
to market are headed. Number three are
contrarian takes and for me that's
bootstrapping versus VC. I of course am
the bootstrapper who always advocates to
take as little [music] money as possible
along your journey. You need to find
yours. Why this works for me is because
I'm brutally honest about my journey.
Not only do I share my wins, I share my
failures. And always remember the three
C's. Be incredibly clear about who you
are. Be consistent about that identity
and constantly reinforce that story.
It's more authentic. [music] It's more
vulnerable. And the more relatable your
message is, the more it's going to cut
through. Why is this so effective? It's
because big companies just can't do
this. They have to talk like corporate
brands. [music]
This authenticity is your unfair
advantage. and I recently made an
in-depth course on my entire [music]
LinkedIn strategy. So, if you want to go
deeper on this one topic, I recommend
watching [music] that video. Part two is
outreach. The first thing you need to do
here is identify who to reach out to.
Traditional cold outreach to random
lists no longer works. You need to
[music] do two types of outreach. One is
cold outreach only to people in your
ICP, which we use Apollo to come up with
a list of founders and marketers at SAS
companies from 5 to 200 employees. And
importantly, we reach out to three
people per company. And the other is we
reach out to people who are visiting our
website. And that's exactly why I built
RB2B. After you install it, it starts
identifying your anonymous website
visitors at the person level. You'll get
their first name, job title, LinkedIn
profile, and business email. And now
with this channel, instead of cold
outreach, you're following up with
people who already showed interest. And
you can start using RB2B completely free
by clicking the first link in [music]
the description. Now, with email, to
make this work at scale, you need proper
infrastructure setup. We use either
Instantly or Smartly to manage all of
our sending, and we go back and forth
between them [music] depending on what's
working better at the time. And the key
is domain rotation. You'll need hundreds
of domains to maintain deliverability.
And when I say domains, I'm talking
about like tryyouproduct.com
or the realyouproduct.com
or getyouproduct.com.
And here's how the math works. You
create two inboxes per domain and send
two to 10 emails per day from each
inbox. This low volume per inbox is what
allows these emails to sneak past spam
filters at Gmail and Outlook. And also,
we use tools like NeverBounce and Lead
Magic to validate every email before
adding them to our sequences. This keeps
our sender reputation clean and emails
landing in primary inboxes. And as far
as copy goes, I recommend clear and
concise copy that describes the problem
you solve and has a clear call to
action. Here's what we send at RB2B.
Channel two is LinkedIn connect and DM
campaigns. Use the same ICP list and
list of website visitors from RB2B for
LinkedIn outreach. Connect with 10 to 20
of these prospects daily to start. And
you can work up to 50 per day, but be
careful with automation. I've seen a lot
of people on LinkedIn recently posting
about how they've had warnings about
automation. And I don't know what
happens after that. Maybe their account
gets shadowbanned. Who knows? But it's
not good. Send connection requests with
no messages attached. Acceptance rates
are really high on requests without
messages, and for your website visitor
in particular, it's near 100%. Your
connect rate goes up even more as your
audience grows and people recognize you
from your content. The follow-up
sequence after they accept is step one,
you wait for them to engage with your
content. Once they like or comment on
something you posted, that's your
signal. Send this DM. Hey, first name.
Thanks for the like or comment. How are
things going at whatever company they're
at? The response rate is usually north
of 60% because they just engage with
you. This is the most effective way to
open conversations at scale. Step two,
if no engagement happens after 60 days,
send a soft touch. Say something like,
"Hey, first name. What caught your
attention?" [music] and follow up with,
"How are things going at company X?"
Keep it conversational and not salesy.
Do not pitch in the first message. Build
the relationship first. The secret about
LinkedIn is that you're not actually
selling. You're building rapport so that
you can get someone on a call to sell.
Remember, never sell on LinkedIn. How to
automate LinkedIn outreach at scale?
Well, you use Hey Reach or Log Growth
Machine for automation. These tools
automate connection requests and
follow-up sequences, but be careful not
to exceed LinkedIn's limits. You can get
permanently banned. Now, why combining
email and LinkedIn is so powerful is
because you're hitting the same
prospects across two different channels.
They get your email, they see your
connection request, and they see your
LinkedIn content. This [music] creates
multiple touch points to build
familiarity and trust. Some people are
more responsive on email and others are
more responsive on LinkedIn. So, by
using both, you maximize your chances of
starting a conversation. Retargeting is
the multiplier for everything else. It
keeps you in front of all the leads
you're reaching out [music] to. Setting
up your retargeting infrastructure is
fairly easy. You install pixels from
LinkedIn, Meta, Google, and Twitter on
your website. Then, you create custom
audiences from website visitors to
expand even more. You can build lookike
audiences from your paying customers and
even your prospect lists. You can set up
matched audience ads and go directly to
your prospect lists. So, for the ad
creative, I always use the who, what,
why, how framework [music] from Russell
Brunson. Who are you? What do you have?
Why do they need it? And how can they
get it? I just address each of these
questions and I try to keep these as
authentic as possible. Most of the time,
it's me in a selfie video and the stuff
that I record on my phone actually
performs the best. This retargeting
strategy is what makes the magic
triangle work, which is what you should
be focusing on when you're getting your
first thousand customers. Now, if you
want to implement this, you can start
using RB2B completely free by clicking
the first link into the description.
We'll identify your anonymous website
visitors and send their LinkedIn
profiles straight to your Slack so that
you can reach out while they're hot.
Again, it's the first link below and you
can set this up in a couple of minutes.
And if you want to see what the best SAS
marketing strategies are right now, then
watch this video